# Tutorial 11 - System Operation and Maintenance

## Question 1

A software house produces a software package for the insurance industry. Purchasers of the package
have formed a very active User Group which has lobbied for a particular change to be made to the
software to improve its functionality and usability.

Required:
(a) Explain the main purposes of a system maintenance

> - To improve the performance of the system
> - To ensure that the system functions correctly / properly throughout the whole lifetime.



(b) By using an appropriate example, briefly describe the types of system maintenance

> - **Corrective maintenance.** One example is to correct the total bill amount which is calculated incorrectly in a credit card company.
> - **Adaptive maintenance.** One example is the new implementation of the taxation system, the rule requires that every company to modify their system to adapt and conform to the new standards.
> - **Perfective maintenance.** To cope with users new requirements. One example is to improve the layout of the reports.so that it is more pleasing and more intuitive to view.

(c) What is a maintenance contract?

> - It is a legal document that need to be signed between the user and the software supplier. The contract contains maintenance duration/timeframe, service coverage, maintenance fees, and renewal specifications.

## Question 2

A specialist insurance company has implemented an off-the-shelf software package to provide
insurance premium quotations. The package primarily supports call-centre employees entering
insurance premiums quotation requests received in telephone calls from the general public. However,
the software also has an Internet facility so that the general public can obtain insurance premiums
quotations directly over the Internet. The software has a flexible reporting and enquiry facility for the
management of the call-centre so that the performance of the call-centre can be monitored effectively.
There are currently twenty-one people employed as call-centre telephone operators, reporting to three
call-centre managers.
Post-implementation review
The system went live four months ago and the company recently conducted a post-implementation
review. This review has highlighted a number of problems.

1. Some of the management reports are not very usable. Examples of poorly designed reports were
  identified by the review.

2. The call-centre telephone operators have problems with the usability of the software.

3. Lucy Day, one of the managers of the call-centre is unclear about the scope of the support and
  maintenance contract with the supplier.

4. The company has not yet joined the User Group for the software package. Consequently, the
  company is unable to obtain the benefits of a User Group membership.
  Required:

  (a) Explain the meaning and purpose of a software support and maintenance contract.

  - Purpose
    - Provide help facilities
    - Provide information on the software
    - Provide guidance to the users
    - Provide update and upgrades for the users

(b) Maintenance is often classified as either corrective, adaptive or perfective. The software
supplier has agreed to make the following four changes to the software. Classify each of these
four changes as either corrective, adaptive or perfective.
(i) Improve the usability of the interface;

> Perfective

(ii) Remove totalling errors from one of the management reports;

> Corrective

(iii) Add the new requirement of an audit trail to the software;

> Adaptive

(iv) Enhance the layout of selected reports.

> Perfective

(c) Explain the meaning of the term User Group and the benefits of a User Group membership. (Note: must follow teacher format)

> Definition of User Group
>
> - A platform for the users to discuss ideas, and occasionally act as an arbiter to resolve issues between members and vendors.
>
> Benefits of User Group Membership
>
> - Benefits for vendor
>   - Promote relationships between vendors and users
>   - Means of promoting products
>   - An easy way to provide information to users on updates
> - Benefits for user
>   - Gain knowledge & ideas of new features that will benefit them in the future
>   - Provide a platform to communicate, and exchange ideas between users and problems
>   - Act as an arbiter to resolve conflict between the vendor and the user