# ADIS Tutorial 12

## Q1 & 2

In the adis-t12-q1&2.drawio

## Q3 

### Describe any THREE (3) characteristics of a successful systems development project.

1. Has a well-defined/well-formed objective
2. Must have a proper budget specified
3. Proper specified user requirements
4. Must be able to meet deadline
5. User involvement.
6. Knowledgeable and competent staff



## Q4

(a) Describe the roles and responsibilities of a project manager.

- Report to the organizing committee on the project status
- Direct the job, and lead them in a job

(b) Briefly explain how project management software can support the project manager.

- To answer:
  - List out the role, and tell how you want the software to assist
- Project management software can help project managers to **plan the project**. Project management software help them to estimate completion time, forecast costs, and making a breakdown of the project task.
- Project management software can help project managers to **monitor project**. Project management software help them to keep track of progress and ensure project is going on according to plan.
- Project management software can help in **organizing project**. Assist the project manager in drawing of the diagrams, such as Gantt chart, to identify project duration, critical paths, and activities that cannot be delayed.
- Project management software can help in **reporting**. Assist the project manager in making documentations according to the specifications and requirements, and help them in the drawing of the charts.