# Tutorial 13

## Question 1

In the context of software development, define the following terms and provide appropriate examples

### Methodology

- Phases to follow in any software development that will help you to develop good quality system.
- Examples: SDLC, AGILE, RAD

### Technique

- They are guidelines that help an system analyst complete a system development.
- Example: Fact finding technique, such as questionnaire

### Tools

- Definition

## Question 2

Some asked the question why not just build a system in whatever way seems to be "quick and easy".

Explain THREE (3) reasons why is it important to use systems development methodologies when
building a system?

- Ensure the quality of the product being made is ensured
- Ensure that all requirements of the system are being met. Proven to help the developer step by step.
- Better project management and control. Because the system development methodologies are proven to help.
- Standardize development and process. Help to improve maintainability

## Question 3

- No proper and clear goals are established early on. Software Requirements: Changing, Missing, or Unclear
- Inefficient/wrong use of software development methodology for the specific use case.

- Poor communication between the team members of a project.
- Incompetent project team members. 

From user side

- User does not know their own requirements. 
- Unforeseen circumstances from the user side.

- Users who keep changing their requirements. As a system development team, have no choice but to delay the completion of the project to suit the users need.

- Lack of user participation/involvement. Cause project deadlines to be overrun due to carelessness.
- 